Ghadir is an Iranian over the horizon radar, part of Iran's Sepehr Phased Radar System. Ghadir is a 360°, 3D-radar, with a ceiling of 300 km, and a maximum range of 1100 km. You can hear a high and a low tone, corresponding to the sweep rates of 870 and 307 sweeps/sec sent in two separate bursts.

Unlike many other OTHR's, Ghadir doesn't use FMCW modulation. Instead, it uses a shaped pulsed system which makes the edges of the signal hard to define. Because of this, the bandwidth of this signal can vary greatly, ranging from around 60 kHz to splattering over 1 MHz, depending on the power of the received signal for the user. The typical observed bandwidth is about 60 kHz. Pulses are modulated with an upwards FM sweep (FMOP).

As of 2023 or even earlier, Ghadir has often been seen using lower pulse frequencies of 150 Hz and 314 Hz. The higher frequencies (307 Hz / 870 Hz) are still used. Quite rarely, Ghadir or a related radar has been spotted using a constant pulse frequency on the 10m ham band and on the low VHF band above 30 MHz.

Similar radar signal has been reported in Russia, but it has yet to be confirmed if it actually originated from there. The names "Ghadir" and "Sepehr" are somewhat unclear as little public information is available. According to GlobalSecurity.org, Sepehr is a larger system with longer range, and both systems are based on the Russian Rezonans-N/NE radar. The same system has been exported to Algeria which increases the number of possible sources of this kind of signal.
