Single-sideband voice is a subtype of amplitude-modulated voice which only uses one sideband and typically lacks a reference carrier as well—this case is referred to as single-sideband suppressed carrier (SSB-SC). The sideband used may be either the lower or upper sideband—lower sideband is typically used by amateurs for voice below 10 MHz, and USB by amateurs for voice above 10 MHz. SSB is utilized heavily for amateur HF voice communications as well as VHF and UHF weak signal voice communications. Single-sideband uses less power than full amplitude modulation, as it omits the carrier and duplicate sideband, both being superfluous to adequate voice communication in many situations. It is also more spectrally efficient than full AM, as the omission of a carrier and duplicate sideband considerably decreases the utilized bandwidth. This comes at the expense of lower audio fidelity, as well as the need more careful receiver tuning due to the lack of a reference carrier signal. An improperly tuned SSB signal may sound distorted—either too high or too low in pitch. This is corrected by fine tuning adjustment. Some rigs have a "clarifier," also known as a receiver incremental tuner (RIT), which when used will only adjust the receive frequency and leave the transmit frequency as is. This feature can help avoid repeated adjustments for both sides of an amateur contact, and can also be used in nets to hear a slightly off-frequency operator with less hassle.

SSB voice is extremely common throughout all HF amateur bands which allow the use of phone modes in at least some portion of the band. In general, United States Technician licensees only have HF phone privileges in a small section of the 10-meter band (28300 to 28500 kHz). SSB voice may also be seen above 30 MHz, where it is used instead of narrow FM voice due to its comparatively better weak signal performance.